What is Kamloops Makerspace?
===================

First, let's get some structural stuff out of the way: Kamloops Makerspace is a 100%
volunteer-run, Non-Profit Society. We have a Board of Directors who fulfill some
necessary administrative tasks, but all members are expected to contribute to the success of the space. Each of our members is
an individual and brings their own background and expertise.  While some of our tools are owned
by Kamloops Makerspace as an entity, some may be on loan from our members. Our community
is where our biggest strength lies.


Do-ocracy
---------

We're structured as a Do-ocracy, which is to say that we're all empowered as
individuals to find our own tasks and take them on, both for our own projects
and with regards to the space. See something that needs fixing and you know
how? Fix it! Have a skill people are interested in? Teach them! Take on what
you'd like to take on given the time and energy you have. 

Functionally, what Do-ocracy means is
that you can do effectively whatever you want as long as it:

- Is safe and does not make things unsafe.
- Can be reasonably undone in less than four hours.
- It does not negatively impact other members' enjoyment of the space.
- It does not damage equipment or the building.

But to add to that, any Do-ocracy this falls apart if everyone acts as
an individual. Keep in mind that other people use the space and the things
you do can affect them, and the things they do can affect you, both positively
and negatively. Be kind to each other. Be excellent. Treat others as you'd
like to be treated. Treat the equipment and space well, because you're sharing
it. Leave things at least as clean as you found them. If you're concerned
about someone getting upset with you for doing something with the space, post
a topic on the forum and you'll find out pretty quickly whether people are for
or against what you're planning.

There's also an expectation that each of our members put a bit of time into
the space in addition to keeping your dues current. That could be taking trash,
becoming a mentor, attending  meetings, cleaning, fixing broken equipment, 
or whatever else you find.

On the personal side of any community, mistakes and miscommunications happen.
We have a lot of people here. Generally speaking, things run best when we
assume good intentions of other people.  Please try to be kind and understanding if anything
comes up. We want everyone to feel welcome and safe, and kind discussion is
generally preferable to loud confrontation.  Listening is also an important part of communication

Especially be respectful of other people's time.  If progress on something someone is doing 
isn't going as quickly as you'd like, help! We all have lives outside of here and things get delayed.
If someone is too busy or uninterested in helping you, let it go. We all have those days.


Some Policy Stuff
-----------------

Safety and Fire code rule Supreme.

Please bring your own consumables if you need lots.

Dont store things at Kamloops Makerspace.

If you're using Kamloops Makersapce for profit, it is expected that a portion of your
profits will be reinvested in the Makerspace, and you will contribute to the space 
in an above-average manner.  Commercial use must never impact other users' enjoyment of the space.

We do not have storage.  If it's small and fits out of the way but needs a bit of time 
(like for paint to dry), put a note with your name, contact info, and when you'll be back to get it. 
If it's clamped, also write down when the clamps can be removed in case someone needs to use
them. If it's bigger, the pitch should be made at a meeting *before* your project shows up. 
Let people know what your project looks like, where you hope to put it, and how long it'll have to be there.


Community Events
----------------

This space was developd as and is a public and social space.  While members may
have different comfort zones with strangers or social interaction.  All users must
respect that this is a public space and not impede the use or enjoyment of the space.

We have a number of community events that pop up from time to time. Currently,
the only consistent one is our Wednesday Hack Night, from 6-9pm. All
members are encouraged to come out and be social and get to know each other.
If you're comfortable with the public, please tour people around the building, 
and share your enthusiasm! It lets us get to know each other and in a place like this 
where we're sharing a lot of space, knowing the people around you is an extremely 
valuable tool at your disposal. (It also helps with vetting, but we'll get to that later).

Aside from that, we may have game nights and movie nights and LAN parties and all
sorts of things. Any vetted member can organize an event.

We also occasionally do group buys and other community things that aren't tied
directly into socializing, so keep an eye on the forums to see what's
currently going on.

Safety
======

General
-------

This isn't meant to be an exhaustive safety seminar, because that would be
impossible. Most tools have different safety requirements associated with them
and if you're ever not comfortable with how to do something safely, please ask.
Also, everyone does unsafe things sometimes without realizing it, so if someone lets
you know you're doing something questionable, no matter what your experience
is, please listen to them - they're probably right.

The main things to keep in mind are to keep your eyes and hearing safe, and
also to keep yourself from getting snagged by a machine. Sometimes things fly
across the room unexpectedly. That's life. If it hits you in the arm it might
do a lot of damage, but it'll do much more if it hits you in the eye. Wear
safety glasses as much as possible if you're even near *other* people using
power tools. You also can't really recover your hearing, so if you're around
loud things, use hearing protection.

With snags, avoid wearing things like loose clothing, long sleeves, rings,
necklaces, ties, gloves, and keep your hair tied back or under a hat if
there's any chance it might fall into machinery. Any of these things can mean
a trip to the ER around a lot of our equipment if you aren't careful.

Speaking of emergencies, if someone is hurt or in danger, please call 9-1-1.


Bigger Decisions and Getting Started
====================================

Getting Started
---------------

The Kamloops Makerspace member portal is at kamloops Makerspace.com. It's where you sign up, 
make payments, communicate on the forum, and other things as we add them.

The forum is the best place to communicate.  It is viewable to the public, so please avoid posting 
anything sensitive there.  While the forum may not suit your preferences, using other communications
tools can segment our community and silo information.

Vetting
-------

New members have a 3-month probationary period.  In this time, they are expected to 
participate in the Makerspace's culture and complete some of the tasks expected of 
all members.  (Such as housekeeping tasks)  After the probationary period they will 
be voted on for full membership.

Bigger Decisions
----------------

We have Member Meetings generally on the first Thursday of every month at 6pm,
and our Annual General Meeting in December. You can also be vetted on these days.

These meetings are where all our bigger decisions get made.  So please check the 
calendar on the website or the forum to make sure they haven't moved, or, 
better yet, attend and stay in the loop.

Members are able to make motions for new policies etc.  It is recommended that these
be posted on the forum *at least* 72 hours before the meeting. This lets us
discuss any issues with it before the meeting and hopefully has us closer to a
consensus. Motions are then voted on with a yes, no, or abstention, and
require a 51% approval to pass.

Sometimes the motion is not specific enough to pass, at which point it is
deferred to a small group of people with relevant expertise and enthusiasm to
hone and make a more concrete decision on.

The board of directors is voted in the same way, but exclusively at the Annual
General Meeting.


Participating in Decision-making
--------------------------------

Most of the debate regarding decisions should happen on the forum. It's where people
post motions and discuss general interests, even before ideas get formed to the
point that a motion comes together. If there's something you'd like to see but
don't, that's a good place to start. If you're knowledgeable about something
that gets deferred at a Member's Meeting, you can probably also join the group
of people entrusted in honing the motion.

If you don't feel strongly about something or wouldn't actually use the thing
being discussed, weighing in may be counter-productive. Remember that we are a
Do-ocracy and arguing whether A is better than B when neither affect you can
just make things more complicated for the people who just want to do the
thing.

And, of course, come to the Member's Meetings and vote.


To Finish Off
-------------

We touched on this before, but we don't have a cleaning staff, so please, clean
up after yourself for both courtesy and safety reasons. 

And again, we really do want to stress that we want everyone to feel welcome
here. In a shared space with people that depend on people being
excellent to each other. Treat others as you'd like to be treated, and if
you're trying to find out something out about this place we haven't covered here,
check the wiki or the forum, or ask around. Most of us are friendly most of
the time.
